[docs] Guide to building Expo apps for TV (#26376)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/building-for-tv.mdx

---

> title: Building for TV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Build apps for TV
```

I think we can add more clarity to the title by adding the words "apps" and also use short form verb for page titles instead of gerunds.

> title: Building for TV

Author: ```suggestion
title: Build Expo apps for TV
```

> description: A guide for building an Expo app for an Apple TV or Android TV target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A guide for building an Expo app for an Android TV or Apple TV target.
```

Use the platform order as per our [writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#referencing-android-ios-and-web).

---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';
```

Let's add these import files for example in "More" section.

> **Warning** TV development is available only in SDK 50 and later, and is still considered experimental. Not all Expo features and SDK modules are available on TV.

> React Native is supported on Apple TV and Android TV through the [React Native TV project](https://github.com/react-native-tvos/react-native-tvos).  It is not just for TV — it is a full fork of the core repo, and supports both phone and TV targets, including Hermes and Fabric support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native is supported on Android TV and Apple TV through the [React Native TV project](https://github.com/react-native-tvos/react-native-tvos).  This technology extends beyond TV, offering a comprehensive core repo fork with support for phone and TV targets, including Hermes and Fabric.
```

- Let's add the missing period at the end of the sentence.
- Fix the platform order
- Update the last sentence of the paragraph to be more positive avoid using words like "just" for concistency

> By taking an Expo project and using the React Native TV package as the `react-native` dependency, the project can be made to target either mobile (Android, iOS) or TV (Android TV, Apple TV) devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the React Native TV library as the `react-native` dependency in an Expo project, it becomes capable of targeting both mobile (Android, iOS) and TV (Android TV, Apple TV) devices.
```

I think we should improve this paragraph to be clear about what TV library can be used and what it does.

> The changes needed to the native Android and iOS files are minimal, and can be automated with a [config plugin](https://github.com/react-native-tvos/config-tv/tree/main/packages/config-tv) if you use [prebuild](/workflow/prebuild/). The following is a list of changes that the config plugin makes, which you can alternatively apply manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The necessary changes to the native Android and iOS files are minimal and can be automated with a [config plugin](https://github.com/react-native-tvos/config-tv/tree/main/packages/config-tv) if you use [prebuild](/workflow/prebuild/). Below is a list of changes made by the config plugins, which you can alternatively apply manually:
```

> - iOS:
>   - **ios/Podfile** is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
>   - The Xcode project is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
>   - The splash screen (**SplashScreen.storyboard**) is modified to work on tvOS
> - Android:
>   - **AndroidManifest.xml** is modified
>   - The default phone portrait orientation is removed
>   - The required intent for TV apps is added
>   - **MainApplication.kt** is modified to remove unsupported Flipper invocations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Android:
  - **AndroidManifest.xml** is modified
  - The default phone portrait orientation is removed
  - The required intent for TV apps is added
  - **MainApplication.kt** is modified to remove unsupported Flipper invocations
- iOS:
  - **ios/Podfile** is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
  - The Xcode project is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
  - The splash screen (**SplashScreen.storyboard**) is modified to work on tvOS
```

Let's apply the platform order formatting as per our writing style guide.

## Quick start

> The fastest way to generate a new project is described in the [TV Example](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-tv) in the Expo examples repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fastest way to generate a new project is described in the [TV Example](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-tv) within the Expo examples repository.
```

> ## Step by step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integration with an existing Expo project
```

Let's make this section title more meaningful. Doing quick glance over the first few sections and the TOC, it might not be clear to our users that whether they should follow Quick start or steps described in this section unless the read description of each section.

> If you already have an existing Expo project, this walkthrough shows what is required to take an Expo project and modify it for TV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an existing Expo project, the following walkthrough describes the steps required to modify an Expo project for TV.
```

You will need:

- An Expo project using SDK 50 or later.

> - **Apple TV**:
>   - Xcode 15 or later
>   - tvOS SDK 17 or later. (This is not installed automatically with Xcode. If you did not install it at the prompt when first opening Xcode, you can install later with `xcodebuild -downloadAllPlatforms`).
> - **Android TV**:
>   - In the Android Studio SDK manager, select the dropdown for the Android SDK you are using (API version 31 or later), and make sure an Android TV system image is selected for installation. (For Apple Silicon Macs, choose the ARM 64 image, otherwise, choose the Intel x86_64 image).
>   - After installing the Android TV system image, create an Android TV emulator using that image (the process is the same as for creating an Android phone emulator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Android TV**:
  - In the Android Studio SDK manager, select the dropdown for the Android SDK you are using (API version 31 or later), and make sure an Android TV system image is selected for installation. (For Apple silicon, choose the ARM 64 image. Otherwise, choose the Intel x86_64 image).
  - After installing the Android TV system image, create an Android TV emulator using that image (the process is the same as creating an Android phone emulator).
- **Apple TV**:
  - Xcode 15 or later.
  - tvOS SDK 17 or later. (This is not installed automatically with Xcode. You can install it later with `xcodebuild -downloadAllPlatforms`).
```

- Apple platform order formatting
-  Let's make the last point in Apple TV section to be concise to provide instructions to install the tvOS since we are already mentioning that apple it is not automatically installed
- Let's use lowercase for "silicon" when referencing "Apple silicon". Apple docs follow this convention and I think we should too (for example: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon &mdash; ignore the title of the page since their docs follow Title casing for section/page headers)

> **Info** If you are starting with an SDK 49 project, you will need to [upgrade to SDK 50 or higher](/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough/) before proceeding through the following steps.

## Limitations

Certain Expo tools are not yet supported at this time, most notably:

> - expo-dev-client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `expo-dev-client`
```

Since this is a library, let's highlight with inline code syntax.

- Expo Router

<Step label="1">

## Modify dependencies for TV

In **package.json**, modify the `react-native` dependency to use the TV repo, and exclude this dependency from [`npx expo install` version validation](/more/expo-cli/#configuring-dependency-validation).

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
{
  /* @hide ... your existing package.json */ /* @end */
  "dependencies": {
    /* @hide ... your existing dependencies */ /* @end */
    "react-native": "npm:react-native-tvos",

>     /* @hide ... your existing dependencies */ /* @end */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
```

- I think referencing "your existing dependencies in this section once is enough

  },
  "expo": {
    "install": {
      "exclude": [
        "react-native"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Add the TV config plugin

<Terminal cmd={['npx expo install @react-native-tvos/config-tv']} />

> Installing the package adds the `@react-native-tvos/config-tv` plugin to your project's **app.json**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing the library adds the `@react-native-tvos/config-tv` plugin to your project's **app.json**.
```

When installed, the plugin will modify the project for TV when either:

- The environment variable `EXPO_TV` is set to `1`
- The plugin parameter `isTV` is set to `true`

Optionally, set the `showVerboseWarnings` property to `true` to see additional information during prebuild.

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "@react-native-tvos/config-tv",
      {
        "showVerboseWarnings": true
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Run prebuild

Set the `EXPO_TV` environment variable, and run prebuild to make the TV modifications to the project.

<Terminal cmd={['export EXPO_TV=1', 'npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

> **Note**: The `--clean` argument is recommended, and is required if you have existing Android and iOS directories in the project.

</Step>

> <Step label="4">
> 
> ## Build for Apple TV
> 
> After running prebuild, run the following command to build and run the app on an Apple TV simulator:
> 
> <Terminal
>   cmd={[
>     'npx expo run:ios'
>   ]}
> />
> 
> </Step>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Let's add this step after Android

> <Step label="5">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Step label="4">
```

## Build for Android TV

> After running prebuild, start an Android TV emulator, and then use the same command as you would to start the app on an Android phone emulator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start an Android TV emulator and use the following command to start the app on the emulator:
```

In some cases, people might not be familiar with `npx expo run...` commands. So let's not reference that.

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    'npx expo run:android'
  ]}
/>

</Step>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Step label="5">

## Build for Apple TV

Run the following command to build and run the app on an Apple TV simulator:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    'npx expo run:ios'
  ]}
/>

</Step>
```

The following example **eas.json** shows how to extend existing profiles (`development` and `preview`) to create TV profiles (`development_tv` and `preview_tv`).

```json eas.json
{
  "cli": {
    "version": ">= 5.2.0"
  },
  "build": {
    "base": {
      "distribution": "internal",
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      },
      "android": {
        "buildType": "apk",
        "withoutCredentials": true
      },
      "channel": "base"
    },
    "development": {
      "extends": "base",
      "android": {
        "gradleCommand": ":app:assembleDebug"
      },
      "ios": {
        "buildConfiguration": "Debug"
      },
      "channel": "development"
    },
    "development_tv": {
      "extends": "development",
      "env": {
        "EXPO_TV": "1"
      },
      "channel": "development"
    },
    "preview": {
      "extends": "base",
      "channel": "preview"
    },
    "preview_tv": {
      "extends": "preview",
      "env": {
        "EXPO_TV": "1"
      },
      "channel": "preview"
    }
  },
  "submit": {}
}
```

</Step>

> ## Learn more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## More
```

> For a complete example, refer to the [douglowder/IgniteTV repository](https://github.com/douglowder/IgniteTV).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<BoxLink
  title="IgniteTV"
  description="A complete example is available at GitHub."
  href="https://github.com/douglowder/IgniteTV"
  Icon={GithubIcon}
/>
```

Let's use `BoxLink` to refer to the GitHub example. Also imported `BoxLink` and `GithubIcon` at the top of this file.

- iOS:
  - **ios/Podfile** is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
  - The Xcode project is modified to target tvOS instead of iOS
  - The splash screen (**SplashScreen.storyboard**) is modified to work on tvOS
- Android:
  - **AndroidManifest.xml** is modified
  - The default phone portrait orientation is removed
  - The required intent for TV apps is added
  - **MainApplication.kt** is modified to remove unsupported Flipper invocations

## Quick start

The fastest way to generate a new project is described in the [TV Example](https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-tv) in the Expo examples repo.

## Step by step

If you already have an existing Expo project, this walkthrough shows what is required to take an Expo project and modify it for TV.

You will need

- An Expo project using SDK 50 or later.
- Apple TV:
  - Xcode 15 or later
  - tvOS SDK 17 or later. (This is not installed automatically with Xcode. If you did not install it at the prompt when first opening Xcode, you can install later with `xcodebuild -downloadAllPlatforms`).
- Android TV:

>   - In the Android Studio SDK manager, select the dropdown for the Android SDK you are using (API version 31 or later), and make sure an Android TV system image is selected for installation. (For M1 Macs, choose the ARM 64 image, otherwise, choose the Intel x86_64 image).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - In the Android Studio SDK manager, select the dropdown for the Android SDK you are using (API version 31 or later), and make sure an Android TV system image is selected for installation. (For Apple Silicon Macs, choose the ARM 64 image, otherwise, choose the Intel x86_64 image).
```

  - After installing the Android TV system image, create an Android TV emulator using that image (the process is the same as for creating an Android phone emulator).

> **Info** If you are starting with an SDK 49 project, you can execute the commands below to upgrade to SDK 50 before going through the steps:

<Terminal cmd={['npx expo install expo@next', 'npx expo install --fix']} cmdCopy="npx expo install expo@next && npx expo install --fix" />

## Limitations

> Some Expo features are not supported at this time:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain Expo tools are not yet supported at this time, most notably:
```

- Dev client and dev launcher
- Expo Router

<Step label="1">

## Modify dependencies for TV

> In **package.json**, modify the `react-native` dependency to use the TV repo, and exclude this dependency from expo install changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In **package.json**, modify the `react-native` dependency to use the TV repo, and exclude this dependency from [`npx expo install` version validation](/more/expo-cli/#configuring-dependency-validation).
```

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json package.json
{
  /* @hide ... your existing package.json */ /* @end */
  "dependencies": {
    /* @hide ... your existing dependencies */ /* @end */
    "react-native": "npm:react-native-tvos",
    /* @hide ... your existing dependencies */ /* @end */
  },
  "expo": {
    "install": {
      "exclude": [
        "react-native"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Add the TV config plugin

<Terminal cmd={['npx expo install @react-native-tvos/config-tv']} />

Installing the package adds the `@react-native-tvos/config-tv` plugin to your project's **app.json**.

> When installed, the plugin will modify the project for TV when either

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When installed, the plugin will modify the project for TV when either:
```

> - The environment variable `EXPO_TV` is set to "1"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The environment variable `EXPO_TV` is set to `1`
```

> - The plugin parameter `isTV` is set to true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The plugin parameter `isTV` is set to `true`
```

> Optionally set `showVerboseWarnings` to true to see additional information during prebuild.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optionally, set the `showVerboseWarnings` property to `true` to see additional information during prebuild.
```

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "@react-native-tvos/config-tv",
      {
        "showVerboseWarnings": true
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Run prebuild

Set the `EXPO_TV` environment variable, and run prebuild to make the TV modifications to the project.

<Terminal cmd={['export EXPO_TV=1', 'npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

> **Note**: The `--clean` argument is recommended, and is required if you have existing Android and iOS directories in the project.

</Step>

<Step label="4">

## Build for Apple TV

After running prebuild, run the following command to build and run the app on an Apple TV simulator:

<Terminal
  cmd={[

>     'npx expo run:ios'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    'npx expo run:ios --device'
```

should the user add the `--device` flag to show the prompt to pick an apple tv device?

Author: A tvOS simulator will be automatically selected, the device flag is not needed here unless you want a specific device or simulator.

  ]}
/>

</Step>

<Step label="5">

## Build for Android TV

After running prebuild, start an Android TV emulator, and then use the same command as you would to start the app on an Android phone emulator.

<Terminal
  cmd={[

>     'npx expo run:android'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    'npx expo run:android --device'
```

maybe the same thing as above?

Author: If you already have an Android TV emulator running, then the device flag isn't needed.

  ]}
/>

</Step>

<Step label="6">

## Revert TV changes and build for phone

You can revert the changes for TV and go back to phone development by unsetting `EXPO_TV` and running prebuild again:

<Terminal cmd={['unset EXPO_TV', 'npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

</Step>

<Step label="7">

## Create EAS build profiles for both TV and phone

> Since the TV build is driven by the value of an environment variable, it is easy to set up EAS build profiles that build from the same source but target TV instead of phone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the TV build is driven by the value of an environment variable, it is easy to set up EAS Build profiles that build from the same source but target TV instead of phone.
```

The following example **eas.json** shows how to extend existing profiles (`development` and `preview`) to create TV profiles (`development_tv` and `preview_tv`).

```json eas.json
{
  "cli": {
    "version": ">= 5.2.0"
  },
  "build": {
    "base": {
      "distribution": "internal",
      "ios": {
        "simulator": true
      },
      "android": {
        "buildType": "apk",
        "withoutCredentials": true
      },
      "channel": "base"
    },
    "development": {
      "extends": "base",
      "android": {
        "gradleCommand": ":app:assembleDebug"
      },
      "ios": {
        "buildConfiguration": "Debug"
      },
      "channel": "development"
    },
    "development_tv": {
      "extends": "development",
      "env": {
        "EXPO_TV": "1"
      },
      "channel": "development"
    },
    "preview": {
      "extends": "base",
      "channel": "preview"
    },
    "preview_tv": {
      "extends": "preview",
      "env": {
        "EXPO_TV": "1"
      },
      "channel": "preview"
    }
  },
  "submit": {}
}
```

</Step>

> ## More

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Learn more
```

> For a complete example, see [this project](https://github.com/douglowder/IgniteTV).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a complete example, refer to the [douglowder/IgniteTV repository](https://github.com/douglowder/IgniteTV).
```

    "react-native": "npm:react-native-tvos",
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  },
  "expo": {
    "install": {
      "exclude": [
        "react-native"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
</Step>

<Step label="2">

## Add the TV config plugin

<Terminal cmd={['npx expo install @react-native-tvos/config-tv']} />

Installing the library adds the `@react-native-tvos/config-tv` plugin to your project's **app.json**.

When installed, the plugin will modify the project for TV when either:

- The environment variable `EXPO_TV` is set to `1`
- The plugin parameter `isTV` is set to `true`

Optionally, set the `showVerboseWarnings` property to `true` to see additional information during prebuild.

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "@react-native-tvos/config-tv",
      {
        "showVerboseWarnings": true
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

## Run prebuild

Set the `EXPO_TV` environment variable, and run prebuild to make the TV modifications to the project.

<Terminal cmd={['export EXPO_TV=1', 'npx expo prebuild --clean']} />

> **Note**: The `--clean` argument is recommended, and is required if you have existing Android and iOS directories in the project.

</Step>

> <Step label="4">
> 
> ## Build for Apple TV
> 
> After running prebuild, run the following command to build and run the app on an Apple TV simulator:
> 
> <Terminal
>   cmd={[
>     'npx expo run:ios'
>   ]}
> />
> 
> </Step>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this duplicated step since the platform order has now changed.

![CleanShot 2024-01-16 at 13 35 35@2x](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/429af9fd-f335-4671-8bd1-0bc0f7ad6f65)
